In this lecture, we'll cover one of the
most fundamental things that
you can do with GitHub, which is creating
a repository, or a repo.
So, just to, recap, to refresh your
memory, so
we have two pieces of software that we
talked about.
So, Git is a piece of software that allows
you
to do version control of documents, like
on your local computer.
And then GitHub is a piece of software
that allows you, well, it's a
web service, that allows you to, deal
with repos or repositories, remotely, on
the web.
So get GitHub allows you to share your
repository's with
others, access other users public
repositories, and then store copies
of your local repo's on the server in case
something
happens to your local version, you have a
back up copy.
So, there's a couple of different ways of
creating a GitHub repository.
One is you can start a repository from
scratch, that's creating
your own repo, and another is you can fork
another user's repository.
So we'll start off with the first method
which is
just creating your own repo from scratch
and then we'll
talk a little bit about how you can Fork
or
get information from another user and
start working on their project.
So key point to keep in mind is that
when people talk about repositories, they
often call, use repo.
So, what you can do is, either go to your
profile page, which is going to be
github.com followed by your username.
And click on create a new repo in the
upper right hand corner of the page, or
you could
go directly to github.com/new you'll need
to log in to
your GitHub account if you want to do this
second version.
So, the first thing you need to do is
create a
name for your repo, and type a brief
description so make
your name a good idea is to make the name
of
the repo Googleable if you want to share
it with other people.
And then have a description that's pretty
clear and descriptive of the things
that you're going to be trying to do with
the full files in that folder.
And then one thing that you can do is
you can select either a public or a
private repo.
Public repos are the default, and they're
the free
version, and they can be shared with
anybody else.
Private repos usually require a paid
account but if you are at
an educational institution you can often
request up to five private repos.
So then you definitely want to check the
box with initialize this re, repository
with a README and click the Create
repository button down at the bottom.
So after you've done that, you've created
your first GitHub repository.
So you can see that right now this is a
file that's a repo, and Nick Carchetti.
repo, and so you can see that it has a
README document.
Because we initialized it with a README
file.
And so the read me file, if you initiate
with the README file, that
will actually be what is, what you observe
right here is the README file contents.
And we'll talk a little bit more about how
you can use mark down to
create a sort of a README file that makes
the repository very easy to understand.
Now you can create a copy of this repo on
your computer, so that you can make
changes to it.
So you can open Git Bash, and create a
directory on
your computer where you will store your
copy of the repo.
So, for example you can do mkdir and then,
here it's in your home directory
creating test-repo, and then navigate to
this new directory using cd.
And then what you can do is, you can
initialize a local get repository by
using the command get init, if you've
installed
get, as we've talked about previously in
our
previous lectures on Git, and then you can
point your local repository to the remote
repository.
In other words, you can link up your
local repository with the remote GitHub
repository by typing
git remote add origin, and then the URL
of the remote repository that you created
on GitHub.
Now you've linked up your local copy with
your remote version of GitHub.
So, what you can do is, you can actually,
here's what it looks like in action.
So this is actually a re-creating a repo
and then cd'ing that repo and
then setting it up so it's connected to
the remote version of that repo as well.
So,
another thing that you can do is fork
another user's repository or repo.
And so, the idea here is that what you
want to
be able to do is develop software with
other people.
So, they'll have repos that they've
already created that are on GitHub.
Once you find one of those that you're
interested in, you can
go to the, that repository and then you
can click the Fork button,
and so what the Fork button will do is, it
will create a
copy of that repo as it currently is
situated in your GitHub profile.
So now you have it on your GitHub account.
And so, you can make a local copy, so you
can
clone the repo down to your compu,
computer by using the command.
Git clone, and that will take your local
version of
your, or sorry, the remote version of your
repo and clone
it down to your computer It will, if you
use the
command like this it will clone to your
current working directory.
And then what you can do is you can
actually work on that and try to
contribute back to the repo, with and hope
that they'll use the changes that you
made.
If you made changes to your local copy,
you'll want to push your changes to
GitHub.
You may be interested in staying current
with the changes using your forked copy.
We'll cover some more of the Git and
GitHub basics in coming lectures, but,
really the
basic, the best place to find all this
sort of information is to look at these
tutorials right here both on GitHub and on
the Git website which gives you a lot
of information about how you Fork and
clone
and all the other components of using
GitHub.